# Neuroinformatics

Neuroinformatics is the study of the brain using computing. It merges ideas from
pscyhology, biology, physics, statistics as well as computer science and
engineering to process, analyze and interpret data from neuroscience
experiments, as well as simulate brain activity at different scales.

In recent years, neuroinformatics has found an increasing alignment with *data
science*. This nascent convergence of fields focuses on the effective use of
data across many different research fields and other domains. Data science often
focuses on the tools and technologies that can be used to deal with data coming
from many sources and on the common aspects of data analysis, above and beyond
the specific domain of research or phenomenon studied.

This alignment presents many opportunities: neuroinformatics practitioners can
take advantage of the tools and ideas that have grown in adjacent fields. For
example, image data are commonly used in many fields outside of neuroscience,
including astronomy and geophysics. We can benefit from the advances that
researchers in these fields have made, to analyze images of the brain. Moreover,
data is playing an increasingly important role in many sectors of society and
major technology companies have developed remarkable techniques for data
processing and data analysis. Thanks to an increased attitude of openess about
these technologies, we can take advantage of the advances happening in industry
as well.

At the same time, this does present some challenges: learning how to use ideas
and technologies from data science can be daunting and even scary. Researchers
who don't have a background in math or computing need to incorporate new terms
and new ideas into their knowledge and the learning curve into the field can be
rather challenging to climb. Though there is a widespread belief that increasing
the amount of data that we have to study the brain should improve our ability to
understand it, it doesn't necessarily always feel that way, because with the
increase in the volume of available data and its complexity it feels like we
need to put another layer of tools and ideas between ourselves and the data.

This book provides an introduction to some of the basic ideas, tools and
technologies that have emerged in data science and on their use in
neuroinformatics. It also demonstrates the use of these tools to ask specific
questions about brain function and organization, by way of introducing specific
analysis approaches with open-source software packages that implement them.
There are many sources for open datasets to analyze and other freely available
resources. Accessing these datasets and resources and using them is also a
skill that needs to be honed.
